Canteen
×
Colosseum
Next Steps
Prizes
Ideas
Research
Judging
Resources
Apply
COLOSSEUM FRONTIER
SWARM
Canteen's exclusive priority access for Colosseum's Frontier Hackathon. $25,000 in additional prizes, dedicated mentorship, and direct access to Canteen's network.
Selective cohort · Apply to join.
Request access →
Join Discord ↗
PRIZE POOL
$25K
DATES
Apr 6 – May 11
FORMAT
Online · 4 weeks
ACCESS
Apply to join
Canteen
Research & Technology · New York City
AI, crypto, and payments
01
01
Join our Discord
https://discord.gg/NDgvUzFqBY
02
Register for Frontier (be sure to use this link with the referral to be eligble for SWARM prizes)
https://arena.colosseum.org?ref=SWARM
03
Get the SWARM CLI to submit updates - and (maybe) win some hidden prizes along the way!
uv tool install git+https://github.com/the-canteen-dev/SWARM-cli.git
⧉
04
Submit your project on Frontier
You will need: a product demo (live working product), a founder pitch video (who you are, what you built and why), and a public link to your GitHub repo. You will also be asked traction questions — e.g. how many users, labs, or companies you have onboarded.
05
Win! And (maybe) build an amazing company!
The best SWARM projects compete for prizes, Canteen support, and Colosseum's accelerator pipeline.
02
$250k
Colosseum
Colosseum's Frontier
01
$25,000 in prizes
Awarded to standout SWARM projects, stacked on top of everything Frontier already offers.
02
Canteen access, start to finish
Direct lines to Canteen researchers and founders for the full four weeks. Real conversations, not scheduled office hours.
03
Priority programming
Dedicated sessions, workshops, and briefings for SWARM builders throughout the four weeks.
04
The Canteen network
Introductions to operators, investors, and builders already working on the agent economy. No cold outreach required.
03
THE HACKATHON
Colosseum Frontier
Colosseum's flagship hackathon. Thousands of builders competing for serious prizes and an accelerator pipeline that has launched some of the most important companies in the Solana ecosystem.
ALL SWARM BUILDERS COMPETE IN FRONTIER
YOUR PRIORITY PASS
SWARM
Canteen's program running alongside Frontier. Selected builders get $25,000 in additional prizes, dedicated mentorship, and Canteen's full research and founder network.
SELECTIVE COHORT · APPLY BELOW
IDEAS
04
YC's Requests for Startups
The best submissions always are what you care most about.
RFB 01
Agent Discovery & Reputation Networks
Your agent offers a service. How do other agents find it and decide to trust it?
+
RFB 02
Real-Time Agent Coordination
Multiple agents need to coordinate in real-time. Voice calls. Live auctions. Streaming services.
+
RFB 03
Agent Attention Markets
You're selling to agents. Traditional marketing doesn't work on AI. What does?
+
RFB 04
Emergent Agent Economies
What actually happens when hundreds of agents with different goals interact?
+
RFB 05
Multi-Agent Orchestration
Complex tasks need multiple agents working together. Who coordinates, and who gets paid?
+
RESEARCH
05
Read more about our take on mass agent networks here.
01
Debate Primitives for Multi-Agent LLM Collaboration
Li et al., 2025 · UW-Madison
Li's work gives us a concrete design question: when should a swarm deliberate vs. aggregate? The hack here is building that decision as an on-chain primitive — the mechanism selector (debate or vote) lives in a smart contract, debate transcripts are hashed and stored as receipts, and payment releases only after the chosen mechanism reaches quorum. This turns a research finding into auditable, trust-minimized coordination infrastructure. The interesting product wedge is selling it to agent runtime providers (e.g. LangGraph, CrewAI) as a drop-in arbitration layer.
02
TurboQuant KV Cache as Agent Memory
Zandieh & Mirrokni · Google Research · 2026
Extreme KV cache compression may enable agent memory to be stored onchain for the first time. This would give agents verifiable, persistent memory that survives across sessions and providers — no single inference provider controls the memory state. The hack is a PoC that snapshots a compressed KV cache (using TurboQuant's technique) at the end of each agent session, pins it to Arweave/Filecoin with a hash on Solana, and rehydrates it at session start. If retrieval quality holds up at extreme compression ratios, this is the missing piece for truly persistent agent identity.
03
Craftium On-Chain via Rust Game Engine
Mikelma et al. · ICML 2025
Craftium provides a Minecraft-based framework for building diverse multi-agent environments in a composable way. Can we rewrite the environment core in a Rust-based game engine (Bevy is the obvious choice given its ECS architecture and WASM compilation target)? This creates a permissionless arena for agent training and evaluation.
04
MiroFish as a Prediction Market Oracle
OASIS + Manifold/Polymarket
OASIS simulates one million agents reacting to a seed event. MiroFish wraps this into a structured report. The gap: there's no way to bet on whether the simulation is right. The hack is to wire MiroFish's output — e.g. "68% of simulated agents react negatively to this policy in 72 hours" — into a prediction market where the resolution criterion is measured real-world sentiment (X API, Farcaster, Reddit). The simulation run is committed on-chain before the real-world event unfolds, making it tamper-evident. The interesting research question OASIS itself raises: at what agent-count threshold does the simulation's predicted sentiment distribution start matching real observed distributions? You'd have ground truth data to actually answer this.
05
zkVM Verifiable Simulation Replays via MiroFish Architecture
MiroFish
MiroFish runs "dual-platform parallel" simulations — agents act across two synthetic social platforms simultaneously. This is a natural structure for zkVM-verifiable replays: run the simulation once, generate a proof that the reported emergent behaviors follow deterministically from the initial graph state and the model weights used. Builders could then ship simulation results to clients who verify the proof without re-running the full simulation. The practical bottleneck is that LLM inference isn't cheaply provable today — but MiroFish-Offline's Ollama backend with a quantized local model (qwen2.5 at 4-bit) is small enough that zkML proof generation becomes at least tractable for short simulation windows.
06
These weightings are recommendations. Our judges have the final say, and the best projects tend to break all the rules.
40%
Innovation
Novel approach, emergent behaviors, genuine research insights. Something that did not exist before you built it.
30%
Agentic Sophistication
How much does the AI actually decide versus just automate?
30%
Traction
Real users and real transactions during the event. Four weeks is your window to prove it works.
07
AGENT COMMERCE
x402-solana
TypeScript SDK
↗
x402-secure
Python SDK
↗
Solana Agent Kit
Agent framework
↗
Frames.ag
Agent wallet OOTB
↗
INFRASTRUCTURE
Anchor Framework
Smart contracts
↗
Helius
RPC + data
↗
Pyth Network
Oracle data
↗
Jupiter
Solana DeFi
↗
Yellowstone gRPC
Real-time network data
↗
Light Protocol
ZK compression
↗
Carbon
Indexing framework
↗
Tukuk
Automated task triggers
↗
READING
Multi-Agent Landscape 2026
Mar 2026
↗
AI Agent Landscape 2026
Jan 2026
↗
Canteen × Colosseum · SWARM 2026
thecanteenapp.com